• What is React Js?

React is a free and open-source front-end JavaScript library for building user interfaces based on components.



• What is NPM in React Js? 

 NPM is node package manager which is a package manager for JavaScript and command npm is used to download JavaScript packages from Node Package Manager.


• What is Role of Node Js in react Js?

 Node.js is a JavaScript runtime environment that allows developers to write JavaScript code that runs directly  in a computer process itself instead of in a browser.
 Node.js is used to write the server-side code, while React.js is used to write the client-side code.


 • What is CLI command In React Js? 

  Command Line Interface is used to use to work with computer program with commands.
    React js has commands to use CLI.


• What is Components in React Js? 

    Components are the building blocks of React applications.
    Components is reusable code which has javascript functions which returns the HTML that the component will render.
    e.g
    <!-- 
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
function MyApp()
{
    return <h2> hey Addition is{45+65}</h2>
}

• What is Header and Content Components in React Js?

    Header components are used to display the website's brand and navigation.
    They include website's logo, and a menu of links. Header components can also include other search bar, social media icons, or a call to action button.

 • How to install React Js on Windows, Linux Operating System? How to Install NPM and How to check version of NPM?


    Installation of react js windows

    1)Install Node.js installer for Windows.
    2)Check Node js and npm version
             node -v
             npm -v 
    3)Now in the terminal run the below command:
            1) npx create-react-app app-name
            2) cd app-name
            3) npm start

    Installation of react js linux
    1)Install Node js and Npm with below commands
            sudo apt update
            sudo apt install nodejs
            sudo apt install npm
    2)then install rect with below command
             npm install -g create-react-app
    3)and create new react application
                create-react-app my-app
                cd my-app
                npm start

 • How to check version of React Js?


    1) check react js verson : 

    package.json 
    
    "react": "^18.3.1",             
    
    2) check verson via command 
    
    npm view react version
    18.3.1
    
    3) check version via scripting

 • How to change in components of React Js?

 • How to Create a List View in React Js?
